[MUSIC]
>> Bianca Gandolfo: So we're talking
about how to make privacy with or
make local variables in our functions,
but what if we have a function
nested inside another function?
How does that effect our scope?
What do we need to know about that
to effectively handle our functions?
So we have here, just a review is
we have this blender function.
And here see, this is a name function.
This isn't one that's
being stored in a var.
So we have a blender function,
it takes fruit and
it assigns that fruit to b and
then it blends smoothie.
BS means blends smoothie and
it's gonna alert the fruit,
whatever you pass into to it plus
yogurt makes a fruit swirl and
then we call it here and
then we call it down here.
And the question is like
where can we access these
variables and this nested scope?
So, the parent that has null
access to the child scope.
So if we said, var,
I don't know, x = 'asdf'.
My creative juices are a little
slow this morning.
We couldn't say down here,
we couldn't console.log(x).
That's because while
child scopes are nested,
internested function has access to
the parent scope as well as the global
scope where the parents don't
have access to the child scope.
And at Hack Reactor,
we use this metaphor for
functions that I mentioned yesterday
where a function is like a blender.
A blender is an object.,
we can move it around.
I can hand it to different people and
we can save it in a variable if
we wanted to, but to run the function or
to turn on the blender,
you have to put in the fruit and
then press the button.
And so call time is pressing the button,
for example.
And so the extension of that
metaphor as it applies to scope,
it's a little gruesome, but you never
want to put your hand inside the blender.
So if you kind of forget which way?
Who can access what?
If it's the parent or the child, just
remember, you can't put your hand inside
of a blender or you don't want to
put your hand inside of a blender.
And that will help you remember that the
parent can't reach into the child's scope,
but the child can actually
reach into the parent's scope.
So that's why here in this alert,
we can access the variables
in the parent's scope here.
Y and v, but we can't cancel.log(x)
down here at the bottom.
>> Speaker 2: I guess I'm
confused with the analogy.
Why would you want a child
to reaching into a blender.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: [LAUGH] You don't
want children reaching into blenders.
That's not what I'm trying to promote.
So we have nested function here,
you see that we have this blend smoothie
function and
then we have the blender function.
So we have this function inside of
the function and the question is,
which scopes.
So, we have two different scopes
that we're talking about.
We have the parent scope and
then we have the child scope, and
we're trying to figure out which
scopes have access to which variables.
So the child one, the inner function
has access to the parent scope and
the global scope and
all the way up the chain.
So if it was nested many times,
any parent,
it has access to those
variables in that scope.
However, the parent cannot
access the child scope.
So this outer scope here can't
access this inner scope and
that's why this console.log(x)
would throw an error.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: That make sense?
Cool.
>> Speaker 2: Somebody in chat was just
asking I think of why you were calling
the bs function there
rather than returning it?
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Rather
than returning it?
>> Speaker 2: Yeah.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Just because we're
just calling it, there's no reason.
We could return it, but then that adds
an extra step of having to call it later.
We're not returning anything from this
function at all, we're just alerting.
So, we could play with
this function want it to.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: So I don't know if you
can read that, but it says, blueberry and
yogurt makes a blueberry swirl.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: And so,
we just created a scope here.
So when we called this blender function,
we created this scope,
that you can kind of
represent by these brackets.
We created a scope there and then here,
when we call this blend smoothie function,
bs is terrible naming.
I didn't think about that at the time.
[LAUGH] We call
the blend-smoothie function.
We create a second scope here.
So this interscope has access to
the parent scope, and that's why b and y.
No, they know what values they hold,
because the child scope
accesses the parent.
>> Speaker 3: If you move the bs()
indication down two lines would that work?
>> Bianca Gandolfo: No and so
the question was if we move this
bs() call time down here, would it work?
And the answer is no,
because the function bs is actually
local to the blender function.
And so, just like we couldn't
console.log local up here,
because it's private,
we can't console log.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: We
can't access the bs here.
>> Speaker 4: See so and the other thing
is there's no arguments being passed to
bs, but
it's still rendering the blueberry and
the yogurt, because they're-
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Because it has access
to the parent's scope.
>> Speaker 4: It has access
to the parent scope.
>> Speaker 3: To followup
the [INAUDIBLE] the indication,
if you moved it down two lines
could you say, blender.ps.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: No, no.
>> Speaker 5: But if you name
it that wouldn't it hoist it up.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: It would
hoist it to the top of the scope.
So, it would be like
equivalent to just like.
So, how the voicing would work is it would
be the equivalent of just putting it up at
the very top.
So we could, technically, oops.
We could technically-
>> Speaker 3: [COUGH]
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Call it up here and
this is like not something
I wanna cover too in depth,
cuz it's a little bit confusing.
But the way that this function works is,
it's hoisted, so
that you could actually
call the function up here.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Yep?
>> Speaker 2: Question
about the variable x.
If it was declared with the bar keyword,
would it be in the global scope or
just the scope above it?
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Good question.
So if we do it like that,
we take off the bar,
then that would be in the global scope.
So it'd be the equivalent of
being in the scope up here.
>> Speaker 3: [COUGH]